# MODEL1006230022: Wolf2000_AnaerobicGlycolysis

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230022.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230022.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Effect of cellular interaction on glycolytic oscillations in yeast: a theoretical investigation.**   
Wolf J, Heinrich R. _Biochem J_ 2000 Jan 15;345 Pt 2:321-34
[10702114](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10702114) ,  
**Abstract:**   
On the basis of a detailed model of yeast glycolysis, the effect of
intercellular dynamics is analysed theoretically. The model includes the main
steps of anaerobic glycolysis, and the production of ethanol and glycerol.
Transmembrane diffusion of acetaldehyde is included, since it has been
hypothesized that this substance mediates the interaction. Depending on the
kinetic parameter, the single-cell model shows both stationary and oscillatory
behaviour. This agrees with experimental data with respect to metabolite
concentrations and phase shifts. The inclusion of intercellular coupling leads
to a variety of dynamical modes, such as synchronous oscillations, and
different kinds of asynchronous behavior. These oscillations can co-exist,
leading to bi- and tri-rhythmicity. The corresponding parameter regions have
been identified by a bifurcation analysis. The oscillatory dynamics of
synchronized cell populations are investigated by calculating the phase
responses to acetaldehyde pulses. Simulations are performed with respect to
the synchronization of two subpopulations that are oscillating out of phase
before mixing. The effect of the various process on synchronization is
characterized quantitatively. While continuous exchange of acetaldehyde might
synchronize the oscillations for appropriate sets of parameter values, the
calculated synchronization time is longer than that observed experimentally.
It is concluded either that addition to the transmembrane exchange of
acetaldehyde, other processes may contribute to intercellular coupling, or
that intracellular regulator feedback plays a role in the acceleration of the
synchronization. for appropriate sets of parameter values, the calculated
synchronization time is longer than that observed experimentally. It is
concluded either that addition to the transmembrane exchange of acetaldehyde,
other processes may contribute to intercellular coupling, or that
intracellular regulator feedback plays a role in the acceleration of the
synchronization.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Wolf J, Heinrich R. (2000) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/74f45d38d4ee95e79df0fb1136678dae)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


